# Rivian Service Guide

Welcome to the unofficial Rivian Service Guide!
Here I'll document the things not in the user manual until Rivian makes a Service Manual available.

# Repair

## Service Menu

> The pin on later versions of Rivian's software are unknown at this time. Rivian needs to open
> this information to consumers.  [Support right-to-repair today](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/blog/what-is-right-to-repair/)

**Provides:**

Gives access to detailed diagnostic information.

**Process:**

* Tap on the hot dog icon on the bottom bar (three dots).
* Tap on the top black bar five times.
* Tap on the hot dog icon on the bottom bar again (three dots).
* Tap the new "R (Ride)" icon.
* A quote will show up on screen.
  * If it's a John Muir quote (earlier versions), type in 7433 (Ride) as the passcode.
  * If it's a Thomas Edison quote (later versions), the 5-digit passcode is currently unknown.
    * It is suspected the passcode is OTP and generated by Rivian... or tied to your VIN in some way.

## ODB2 Port

Now the meaty bits.   The ODB2 port on the Rivian R1T seems to not offer standard CAN communications
(as CAN is no longer required for electric vehicles).

The Rivian ODB2 port does however offer a standard DoIP interface (used by the likes of BMW, etc)

I've attached to this DoIP interface, gotten an ethernet link, and sniffed activity with Wireshark
(which should be DoIP aware).

My system spamming DHCP client requests off into the ether of the Rivian saw zero traffic returned.

Thoughts:
  * The standard 510 Ohm resistor in the BMW adapters isn't the correct value to give access to DoIP.
  * You have to activate something in the (no longer accessible) RiDE diagnostic screen to activate DoIP.
  * You have to provide a certificate to some silent network endpoint to authenticate for access.

Someone sniffing the communications from the Rivian diagnostic equipment to the Rivian with Wireshark
and an ethernet hub would be infinitely useful here... however given the limited access to such diagnostic
hardware, this is a big lift.

Right-to-repair laws however may improve access to such hardware.

## Resets

### Sleep Reset

**Fixes:**
Can fix minor issues... however not very useful for larger issues.

**Process:**

* Nothing plugged into USB ports.
* Exit the vehicle, all seatbelts unbuckled.
* Vehicle not charging.
* Close the doors, lock.
* Leave it alone for 30 minutes.

### Soft Infotainment Reset

**Fixes:**
Can fix screen glitches, hotspot glitches, navigation issues, etc.

**Process:**
Hold the far left and right buttons on the steering wheel for around 15 seconds.

### Full Reset

**Fixes:**
Full computer restart. 

**Warning:**
Your vehicle will be out of service for 30 - 60 full minutes as the car boots up. DO NOT REBOOT
AGAIN FOR AT LEAST 1-2 hours!!!

**Process:**
Hold the far left steering wheel button and the emergency flasher for 15 seconds.

# Process

## Changing Ownership

As of Jan 2023, If you purchase a Rivian from a third-party you must email Rivian a copy of the
bill of sale and a copy of your drivers license. The process takes 7-10 days.. so do it ASAP after
purchase.

## Service Technician

Currently, costs for a mobile Rivian Service Technician to show up for a non-warranty covered
trip are a steep $700+.  Talk to customer service and make sure your work is covered by warranty.

## Tire Rotation

> TIP: If you have a full size spare, be sure to rotate your spare into the mix before 8k miles!
> This will give you 25% more tire life. After around 10k miles of wear, the tread difference
> generally gets too great to perform a 5-tire rotation.

### Conserve Mode

Conserve mode will consume your front tires at a faster rate than your rear. (conserve is front
wheel drive). Be extra sure to practice good tire rotation when using conserve mode!

### Lug Nut Torque

Lug nuts should be torqued to 190 Nm / 140 Ft Lb in a standard star pattern

### TPMS Sensors

The Rivian vehicles auto-learn the TPMS sensor positions after a tire rotation. Rivian support
has confirmed this only takes 10-15 minutes of driving. No tool needed.

# Known Problems

## Charging

As of April 2023, If you have a time-based charging schedule on your level 2 EVSE, the Rivian can
refuse to charge when your EVSE activates (the vehicle being locked and trying to provide power
might be the fault scenario). It's recommended to not use EVSE-based scheduling and use the Rivian's
built-in scheduling to resolve this.

## Automatic Tonneau Cover

The automatic Tonneau cover sold on early vehicles *will* jam and fail with dirt + age.
Rivian is currently working on a free fix for existing vehicles.

Until then, if your Tonneau cover works today and hasn't been locked out by Rivian. Take these
steps ASAP while it is still functional.

* Buy a can (or two) of WD-40 Specialist Dry Lube with PTFE.
* Clean off any grime or debris with Tonneau closed.
* Spray in-between each panel section with the straw nozzle.
* Open the Tonneau.
* Spray the tracks on either side using the straw nozzle.
* Spray around the front edge of the Tonneau track on either side.
* Wipe off excess. Close the Tonneau.
* Repeat every month or two to buy yourself time.

If your Tonneau jams, contact Rivian service. They'll open it fully and lock it out until
the final solution is released.

# Legal

Rivian is a registered trademark of [Rivian](https://rivian.com).
This guide is unofficial and has no direct relationship with Rivian.
The authors will accept no responsibility if the steps in this guide break your vehicle or void your warranty.
